[Razor-users] Re: many vs oneOates, Isaac wrote:
 > First, 1,000 people will have seen the piece of spam that could've
 > been avoided.  But the other 99,000 will never see that spam.  Evenly
 > distributed, it means that an average user will only see 1% of spam.
 > That's not realistic, because not everyone will get the same spam,
 > but the basic threshold can be adjusted.  At the very least, 30
 > people need to "vote" on a given piece of mail to make a realistic
 > decision.  Since there's no "no" vote mechanism (except
 > revocation--and that's after the fact), only a "yes" vote mechanism
 > exists and so if you received 30 "yes" votes then you could safely
 > say that you got a reasonable sample.

I'm not sure that I follow your reasoning here. Razor isn't your mail 
server. It doesn't keep in your mail. You don't request your mail there. 
Nor do most people check for spam only when they are going to read their 
mail. My setup check a mail against Razor when my server receives it, 
not when I'm going to read it. If you wait to get 1000 reply for a mail, 
it means you have to wait for 1000 people to read it (at least, some 
people may not vote because they don't want to vote that day or because 
they don't think it's spam). Knowing that about half the planet would be 
sleeping (night time) and thus not reading their mail, it would mean 
that at least 2000 people already received the mail in their inbox. 
Knowing that, among the people who are not sleeping, not all of them are 
constantly reading their mail. I would say that less than 1 people over 
10 read their mail as soon as it arrives. That means that 20,000 people 
already recieved the mail and checked it against the Razor database 
before you would get your 1000 votes.

Also, with your system, 99% is the best you could get. If you wait for 
only one vote, maybe only 20 guy would read the mail (1 to vote, 10 
sleeping, and 9 not reading their mail soon enough). Wich gives a value 
99.98%. That's far better than your 99% don't you think.
In RealLife(tm), most likely one guy voting won't be enough but the 
thing is that it will stop the spam as early as possible.

Also, if for some reason, this mail is one of those people don't agree 
on whether it is spam or not, it would take a while to revoke those 1000 
reports, which means that some people may lose this legitimate (to them) 
mail.

You mentioned that with this system, people will re-report less often. 
First, I don't see how waiting *longer* before making a decision on the 
legitimacy of a mail will reduce re-reporting. The more you wait, the 
more people will get the mail in their inbox, the more people will see 
the mail (again, not everybody check their mail against Razor at read 
time, most do it a reception time using procmail/spamassassin). Second, 
re-reporting has its use, it increase the confidence that a mail is spam.

So I don't see what you gain with your 1000 people.

	Jehan





-------------------------------------------------------
This sf.net email is sponsored by: Dice - The leading online job board
for high-tech professionals. Search and apply for tech jobs today!
http://seeker.dice.com/seeker.epl?rel_code=31
_______________________________________________
Razor-users mailing list
Razor-users@lists.sourceforge.net
https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/razor-users


