Nil messaging statement in "Cocoa Fundimentals Guide" misleading?I have never before taken this path to request help on a "bug" before, 
but either I'm nuts or the person who reviewed my bug is, well, not sure 
what to say.

My bug (Bug ID# 7726255) was just closed with a "Behaves as Normal". 
This bug is against the "Cocoa Fundimentals Guide", in the section 
talking about ObjectiveC 2.0 messaging.

On page 70 of the PDF, there is this paragraph:

-----
In your program’s control-flow statements, you can test for the presence 
(or absence) of the appropriate negative literal to determine how to 
proceed. For example, the following while statement from the 
SimpleCocoaTool code implicitly tests the word object variable for the 
presence of a returned object (or, in another sense, the absence of nil):

while (word = [enm nextObject]) { printf("%s\n", [word UTF8String]);
}

In Objective-C, you can often send a message to nil with no ill effects. 
Return values from messages sent to nil are guaranteed to work as long 
as what is returned is typed as an object.

------

When I read this I jumped out of my chair - I had just that day revised 
hundreds of lines my company's old code to tidy up statements like 
"if(foo && [foo count] != 0)" to "if([foo count])"! So, I cracked open 
my ObjectiveC 2 guide, just to be sure I hadn't completely misunderstood 
nil messaging.

Of course, what I found was that in 2.0 methods that return ints, 
floats, etc are all guaranteed to work with nil messaging (the number of 
supported types increased dramatically in 2.0).

What I had hoped my ug would prompt a revision such as: "Return values 
from messages sent to nil are guaranteed to work as long as what is 
returned is typed as an object or an integral or floating scalar (refer 
to ObjC2.0 Guide for a full discussion)."

My purpose in entering the bug was that the statement "messages sent to 
nil are guaranteed to work as long as what is returned is typed as an 
object." is extremely misleading to people most in need of correct 
guidance, noobies.

Frankly, I was shocked when this bug was closed. My sincere hope is that 
some Apple employee reading this will see this issue as I do and do 
something about it.


David


 _______________________________________________
Do not post admin requests to the list. They will be ignored.
Objc-language mailing list      (Objc-language@lists.apple.com)
Help/Unsubscribe/Update your Subscription:
http://lists.apple.com/mailman/options/objc-language/mlsubscriber.tech%40csmining.org

This email sent to mlsubscriber.tech@csmining.org

