Microsoft Buys XDegrees - Secure Access Company
==
http://siliconvalley.internet.com/news/article.php/10862_1460701

Microsoft Tuesday said it has purchased a Mountain View, Calif.-based
security company to better secure its core file services including its
Windows platform and .NET initiative.

The Redmond, Wash-based software giant has acquired the assets of XDegrees
for an undisclosed amount of cash and is in the process of relocating the
team of 12 or 14 engineers to the Microsoft campus.

XDegrees' technology assigns URLs to Word files, video clips, and other
digital documents for access across a peer-to-peer network

XDegrees founder Michael Tanne was offered a job, but decided instead to
play his hand in the Silicon Valley.
==========

"XDegrees' technology assigns URLs to Word files, video clips, and other
digital documents for access across a peer-to-peer network" - assigns URLs
to Word files... and somebody /bought/ that?

===
http://www.xdegrees.com/pr_2001-11-12_1.html
"The XDegrees System allows users to easily and consistently locate, access
and manage information by assigning each document a unique link. Providing
end-to-end security, the XDegrees System unifies authentication of all
users, provides file-level access control and encrypts all stored and
transferred files. Seamless integration with existing applications such as
email clients and Microsoft Office products allows companies to rapidly
deploy the XDegrees System and users to get up-and-running quickly."

Whoa... high tech...

===
More bits here...
http://www.openp2p.com/pub/a/p2p/2001/04/27/xdegrees.html

"The essence of XDegrees consists of a naming system and a distributed
database that allows peers to resolve resource names. XDegrees manages these
services for customers on its own hosts, and sells its software to
enterprises so they can define and run their own namespaces on in-house
servers. You can search for a particular person (whatever device the person
is currently using), for a particular device, for a file, or even for a web
service. The software that resolves resource names is called XRNS (the
eXtensible Resource Name System)."



