Since we were on the subject...
Gays, gay sex, gay marriage.....wooohooo its been a mano e mano week and
thursady will be the mass market consumer period on it.

The WWE's gay marriage cermemony is in the can, that is its been filmed
last night for thursady nights Smackdown. Did they do it tastefully? Oh
come on its the WWE for cripssake, of course they didnt. Did they use it
ot promote an story line? Despite the WWE throwing away more good story
lines in the last 2 years than a wood chuck who could chuck wood if the
enviromentalists did not slap lawsuits on them, the sotrywrites seemed to
have finaly hit on a big tie togther event for several story lines.

But of course, no one here watches the WWE, and not even because you would
rather watch old Divxs of the ECW, so this little bit is probably fallign
on the old killsawfiles.

SO I wont be bursting anyones thursdaynight plans if I smarkout and say
that B and C waver near the final vows, the blame is falling on Ricco,
thier "manager"*, for  pushing them to carry out their "gay" act far too
long and just when things look to be heating up with that story
arc......the mask comes off the justice of the piece as he pronounces
that they have gone 3  minutes, yes 3 minutes, too long.....Yep, its the
Bisch and in come Rosey  and Jamal to attempt a stomping on Stpehnie
McMahon. Hopefully they did  not get off a kick like they did on the first
lesbain back on Mondays raw as that broke a rib.

Of course the editing truck boys might change some none or all of this
around, so if thursday nights tape play reveals them hitch and on thier
way to a honeymoon, thats the luck o the smarkies. I doubt it will be
edited much though from the way I heard it.

So the bottomline is, they really were not gay all along, they were play
acting and it got out of hand because Ricco made them, Steaphnie gets a
face push while the Bisch gets a thursady night special 3 min heel push,
thus furthing the story arc of the brand split. Rosey and Jamala  get heat
and B and C get a new Tag Team to play with.  Ricco..who knows, maybe some
heat time would be good for him as a single.

All this of course at a time when the ratting are in the bottom of a 4
year valley of gloom, the last 2 years have been mostly squandered on
borken story arc promises and bad acting, and to top it all off Mick is no
longer ont he sceen so...bang bang...how can it be all good?

Well, its back to my growing ECW divx collection where Tajiri was the shiz
and Mick cut promos unrivaled by any of todays mic monkeys.

* Todays managers are a far cry form the managers of the 80's/early 90's.
Ricco is nota  Paul Bearer or a Jimmy Heart at all but more like a buddy
who goes to the ring with them and occasional interferes..ugh.




