Re: Re[2]: Al'Qaeda's fantasy ideology:  Policy Review no. 114>>>>> "b" == bitbitch  <bitbitch@magnesium.net> writes:

    b> .. I wouldn't necessary say hate lit.

Hate-lit rests on a premise that "them" are fundamentally different
critters from "us" and thus, by being "them-like" they, as a
classification, "bring it on themselves" for us to "correct" them by
any means gruesome we might choose, after all, it's not /us/ pulling
the trigger, it's "them", right?  I've heard Bush say this (verbatim)
more than once, and with a straight face.

Call it gay-bashing or whatever, it's convenient tunnel-vision and
lies to justify violence against a creature genetically, morally and
intellectually indistinguishable from your sister.  Go ahead, peel the
skin off a random daughter of each of them and lay them side by side
on the pavement, and you tell me which one was racially guilty, which
one carried the "infection" the "plague" (note, not the "antigen" or
the "hormone", which have similar metaphoric effects to philosophy,
but they chose the fear-charged words)

"Make no mistake about it" it oozes rhetorical vehicles to obfuscate
it's lack of bits paragraph after paragraph in pushing an agenda to
/excuse/ "our" violence and suspension of human rights to 'clense'
ourselves of "them", the 'non-human' (or lesser-human) objects of its
hate.

What else shall we call it?  Just anti-liberal?  

Better question: What if, as in physics, the laws of human behaviour
are the same everywhere in the Universe?  What if Al Queda is in fact
more like our mafia or biker gangs or school board trustees? 

What if they operate by the same neural-annealing Maxima-Minima
gratification mechanisms as you or I and every other creature on this
planet?  

What if, instead of magically and uniquely alien, they are, just like
our own captains and leaders, really only in it for the money, for
trade rights-of-way and for power over minions who will foolishly make
it all happen, minions whom they can once again dup with /virtually/
/identical/ rhetoric ... except we call theirs "fundamentalist islam",
and they call ours "imperialist satanism"?

When both sides can call the other "evil" to the cheers of their local
public and media, you can bet something's rotten in the state of Denmark.

I guess that's why I live in the woods.  Bears and racoons I
understand, but I really just don't 'get' people.

-- 
Gary Lawrence Murphy <garym@teledyn.com> TeleDynamics Communications Inc
 Business Advantage through Community Software : http://www.teledyn.com
"Computers are useless.  They can only give you answers."(Pablo Picasso)

http://xent.com/mailman/listinfo/fork

