Using hosts file to rid yourself of popup adsDon't know if everybody knows this trick...

Puts 127.0.0.1 as the IP for adservers. Elegant.

==

http://technoerotica.net/mylog/hostfile.html

As mentioned throughout this site, there is more than one way to skin a cat
when it comes to pop-ups. The hosts file is one of the most effective
methods there is. In brief, a hosts file is a text file used by Windows to
resolve domain names and IP addresses. If you're running windows, you
already have a hosts file but it most likely isn't being used.

What a hosts file does is simple, it lists domains and IP numbers. To get
rid of ads, the hosts file lists the domain names of adservers along with
the IP number 127.0.0.1. This tells windows to grab any content from the
listed domain from the specified IP number. The specified IP number in this
case is your own computer. What happens is that it won't display the ad. If
you choose this method of ad removal there is no need to use our opt out
links. The hosts file is a very effective mechanism.

You can download this hosts file, unzip it and place it in your Windows
directory. YOU SHOULD MAKE A BACK UP of your existing hosts file before you
do. The hosts file is called "hosts" there is no extension. You may have a
file named Hosts.sam this is merely a sample hosts file.

Once you download the file and put it in the windows folder, reboot your
computer and it's a done deal. Pretty simple huh? You might want to look at
the contents of this file as it contains additional information as well as
an address for getting updated versions. <http://www.accs-net.com/hosts/>

Because we're inherently lazy, this works for windows only, don't use it on
a mac! Follow the address in the hosts file for alternative system
instructions.
download now <http://technoerotica.net/mylog/hosts.zip>


We didn't write this file and do not provide support for it's use. Follow
the address in the hosts file for questions. It's not that we don't want to
hear from you but the folks at this address have the answers you need.

http://xent.com/mailman/listinfo/fork


