Try our new Apparel store and get a 30 dollar thank youFor almost a year, we've been working on a new effort that we're
finally ready to show you. We're proud to introduce our new Apparel
and Accessories store with over 400 major clothing brands (including
Gap, Old Navy, Nordstrom, Lands' End, Target, Eddie Bauer, Foot
Locker, and many more).

Our goal is to provide complete apparel selection and offer it the
Amazon way—-with easy navigation, a single shopping cart, your
shipping and payment information already on file, etc. Of course, none
of this would be possible without our many apparel store partners
(we're thankful to have such an amazing group of companies working
with us).

We released a beta version of the Apparel store about a week ago, and
much to our surprise, tens of thousands of clothing and accessory
items have already been ordered. Through the first few days of our
beta, customers have ordered:

* 14,487 shirts (Polo Ralph Lauren button-downs to DKNY blouses)

* 1,843 jackets (Old Navy fleece to Polartec windbreakers)

* 2,712 sweaters (Eddie Bauer V-necks to Liz Claiborne cardigans)

* 140 swimsuits (Tommy Bahama to Speedo)

* 9,408 pants (Gap khakis to Guess jeans)

* 485 skirts (Nordstrom suede to Spiegel leather)

* 1,461 sleepwear items (Marshall Field's satin robes to Lands' End
  flannel pajamas)

* 3,254 pairs of shoes (Nike Air Max to Nine West boots)

* 1,870 pairs of socks (Cole Haan cashmere-blend to OshKosh B'Gosh
  cotton)

* 2,805 accessories (handbags, watches, scarves, etc.)

* 3,287 pairs of underwear (Jockey briefs to Hugo Boss boxers). We all
  need clean underwear, right?

We hope you'll check it out. You'll get a $30 promotional certificate
when you spend $50 or more in the new Apparel store (see details
below). We'd especially appreciate any feedback you have (please
reply to this email to share your thoughts).

http://www.amazon.com/apparel

Sincerely,

Jeff Bezos
Founder & CEO
Amazon.com

----------------------------------------------------------------------
To receive your $30 Amazon.com promotional certificate, click through
to:

http://www.amazon.com/apparel

and see the prominent link for the $30 offer. All details are there.
  
We hope you enjoyed receiving this message. However, if you'd rather
not receive future e-mails announcing new store launches, please click
the Your Account button in the top right corner of any page on the
Amazon.com Web site. In the Personal Information box under the Account
Settings heading, click the "Update your communication preferences"
link.

Please note that this message was sent to the following e-mail
address: yyyy@netnoteinc.com


