Making a mesh on the move
http://www.guardian.co.uk/Print/0%2c3858%2c4489999%2c00.html

Making a mesh on the move

A new way to give us fast mobile net access spells further trouble for 3G, 
reports Peter Rojas

Peter Rojas
Thursday August 29, 2002
The Guardian

Imagine being able to surf the net at speeds faster than DSL from 
anywhere, at any time - you could watch a live video webcast while waiting 
for the bus, email photos to your friends while sitting in the park, or 
download the MP3 of the song that's playing in the pub before it finishes.

This is the vision of a high-speed wireless internet paradise that the 
third-generation (3G) mobile phone companies have been promoting for 
years. 3G services are just beginning to be rolled out, but a new 
technology called mesh networking promises to deliver on this vision 
sooner and more effectively than the mobile phone companies could ever 
dream.

Two companies, US startup MeshNetworks and Moteran Networks of Germany, 
are each developing their own competing version of mesh networking. 
Instead of the current hub-and-spoke model of wireless communications, 
with every device connecting to an overburdened central antenna, any time 
"mesh-enabled" devices - mobile phones, PDAs, laptops - are in close 
proximity to each other, they automatically create a wireless mesh 
network. Every device in the area acts as a repeater or router, relaying 
traffic for everyone else. Traffic hops from person to person until it 
reaches the nearest internet access point, reducing the need for central 
antennas, and improving wireless coverage.

As the number of mobile phones soars, and wireless PDAs, laptops, and 
other devices begin to crowd the spectrum, this approach to wireless 
networking may be inevitable.

Mesh networks also have several other advantages over 3G wireless 
networks. While 3G operators roll out mobile services that offer users 
connection speeds of up to 144 kbps (roughly three times faster than a 
dial-up modem), Moteran and MeshNetworks are able to offer connection 
speeds of up to 6Mbps, over a hundred times faster than dial-up. The 
technologies they use include Wi-Fi - the emerging standard for high-speed 
wireless networking also known as 802.11b. A similarly short-range 
protocol called UltraWideBand, which is poised to succeed Wi-Fi, is even 
faster and could, by 2005, approach 400 Mbps.

The range of a typical Wi-Fi network is generally too limited to be of 
much use when travelling around a city. Mesh networks get around the 
problem of coverage by having every device in the network relay traffic. 
Even though the range of any individual device is relatively small, 
because (in theory) there will be so many users in the surrounding area, 
connections will be faster and better than that of a standard 3G wireless 
connection.

Because mesh networks use Wi-Fi, the equipment and infrastructure needed 
to create them is cheap and readily available. Instead of building 
cellular phone towers that often cost hundreds of thousands of pounds, all 
that is needed to get a network going are wireless access points (around 
£100 now) placed strategically around town to relay traffic, and the 
proper software. Existing laptops and PDAs can be mesh-enabled by 
software.

It also means that anyone could set up their own mobile phone network. 
Unlike with 3G cellular, the part of the spectrum that Wi-Fi operates on 
is unregulated in the US, Britain. The mobile phone companies are none too 
pleased about this, especially since many of them spent billions of pounds 
acquiring 3G licences.

All that's needed are cheap relays and mobile phones equipped to connect 
to the network. With every additional customer that signs up coverage gets 
better, instead of getting worse, as is the case with mobile phone 
networks.

But things get very interesting when you realise that when you have 
high-speed internet connections everywhere, and everyone's laptops, PDAs, 
and mobile phones are connected together at blazingly fast speeds, sharing 
music, movies, or whatever else becomes ridiculously easy. When 
UltraWideBand hits, all of this will just accelerate.

At 400Mbps, copying a pirated copy of the Lord of the Rings from the 
person sitting across from you at the cafe would take about 15 seconds. 
Sooner or later, playgrounds will be filled with kids swapping files of 
their favourite songs, movies, and video games.

But the first mesh networks are not likely to be available to consumers. 
MeshNetworks has no plans to offer its own high-speed wireless service. 
Instead the company plans to sell its technology to others, such as cities 
that want to provide wireless internet to police, fire, and public works 
employees, or businesses that want to establish wireless networks on the 
cheap. Moteran has similar aspirations for small businesses and for 
enterprise networks.

The first place average users may use the technology is when it is 
incorporated into vehicles, enabling motorists to access the internet at 
high speeds, which both companies see happening soon.

When will you be able to wander around town with a 6Mbps connection in 
your pocket? It's too soon to say, but just as broadband internet service 
was initially available only to businesses and universities, eventually 
someone will see the profit in bringing mesh networking to the masses.




