auto mounting a partition with nobrowseI've trying to solve a problem which requires 2 components, the first  
which has been solved by the code from the SampleFilterScheme project  
which makes my partition mountable.

Currently the partition mounts and is viewable in the finder and on  
the Desktop, manually I use diskutil to unmount the partition  
(diskutil unmount /dev/disk0s3s1) and use hdiutil to mount it  
(hdiutil mount /dev/disk0s3s1 -nobrowse) to hide it and this is OK  
for me since I know how to do this but expecting users to perform  
this task.

I'm told that I need to use the DA framework to achieve this task  
however I am unable to find any sample code that shows me how to  
mount a partition with flags.

I realize everyone will ask why I need to do this and to make it  
short I want it hidden from view to prevent people from any  
accidental wrong-doings.

I've read the list archives and what I have concluded is that this is  
a complicated matter that is well beyond my capabilities so finding  
sample code I can adopt for this use would make my life significantly  
easier and allow me to keep what little hair I have left.

The partition in question wli always be /dev/diskXs3s1 so finding  
them is easy, unmounting and remounting with the nobrowse flag is my  
problem and I'm probably looking at it wrong, maybe the initial mount  
request can be interrupted and the option set.

Sample code that shows how to do either would be greatly appreciated.

-- Dale
 _______________________________________________
Do not post admin requests to the list. They will be ignored.
Filesystem-dev mailing list      (Filesystem-dev@lists.apple.com)
Help/Unsubscribe/Update your Subscription:
http://lists.apple.com/mailman/options/filesystem-dev/mlsubscriber.tech%40csmining.org

This email sent to mlsubscriber.tech@csmining.org

