You Have Won The UK Internet LotteryRef: 475061725
Batch:7056490902/188
Winningno:GB8701/LPRC

CONGRATULATIONS

Dear: Lucky Winner .

Sir.

We happily announce to you the draw of the British Lottery International 
programs held on the 1st of Nov 2006 in London.Your e-mail address attached 
to ticket number: 5647560054 188 with Serial number 5368/02 drew the lucky 
numbers: -02-06-21-34-35-49-(46-),which subsequently won you the lottery in 
the 2nd category.You are there fore, been approved to claim a total sum of 
1,000,000.00(one million pounds sterlings) in cash credited to file 
KTU/9023118308/03.This is from a total cash prize of 50 million pounds , 
shared amongst the first Fifty (50) lucky winners in this category.

This year Lottery Program Jackpot is the largest ever for British Lottery 
...The estimated $50 million jackpot would be the sixth-biggest in U.K. 
history.The biggest was the $363 million jackpot that went to two winners in 
a August 2006 drawing of The Big Game, Mega Millions' predecessor. Please 
note that your lucky winning number falls within our European booklet 
representative office in Europe as indicated in our play coupon. In view of 
this, your 1,000,000.00 (One million pounds sterlings ) would be released to 
you by our UBS Bank in London.Our agent will immediately commence the 
process to facilitate the release of your funds to you as soon as you make 
contact with him. All participants were selected randomly from World Wide 
Web site through computer draw system and extracted from over 100,000 
companies.

This promotion takes place annually. For security reasons, you are advised 
to keep your winning information confidential till your claims is processed 
and your money remitted to you in whatever manner you deem fit to claim your 
prize. This is a part of our precautionary measure to avoid double claiming 
and unwarranted abuse of this program by some unscrupulous elements. Note 
that this program was largely promoted and sponsored by a group of 
philanthropist, industrialists from the internet hardware industry and some 
other big multinational firms who wish to be anonymous. OUR SPONSORS The 
National Lottery Logo Please be warned.To file for your claim, please 
contact our fiduciary agent with the below details for processing of your 
claims. You may wish to establish contact via e-mail with the particulars 
presented below citing the batch and reference numbers to this letter. Ref 
No: UK/9420X/06 , Batch No: 074/05/ZY369 ,Telephone lines are open between 
the hours of 8.00am - 4.30pm on Monday through Friday. The following are the 
details you required from you .

:- FULL NAMES OF BENEFICIARY:........ CONTACT 
ADDRESS:............E-MAIL:.... CITY/STATE:...... COUNTRY:........ 
NATIONALITY:........... OCCUPATION............ SEX:.......AGE:....... 
MARITAL STATUS............ PHONE NO:.......... NEXT OF KIN:......... AMOUNT 
WON:.............. REFERENCE NO:................BATCH NO:..... LUCKY 
NO:............. TICKET NO.......... SERIAL NO:.........LOTTERY DATE:.... 
Customer Service Unit AGENT: Mrs. Susan Willim  Email: 
lottery4claimsagent@rediffmail.com

Our winners are assured of the utmost standards of confidentiality, and 
press anonymity until the end of proceedings, and beyond where they so 
desire. Be further advised to maintain the strictest level of 
confidentiality until the end of proceedings to circumvent problems 
associated with fraudulent claims. At your disposal .

Congratulations once again on your winnings!!!

Best Regards Carol Brian (co-ordinator) PLEASE DO NOT REPLY TO THIS 
EMAIL.CONTACT YOUR CLAIMS AGENT AT lottery4claimsagent@rediffmail.com  
BREACH OF CONFIDENTIALITY ON THE PART OF THE WINNERS WILL RESULT TO 
DISQUALIFICATION

_________________________________________________________________
Experience the magic of the holidays. Talk to Santa on Messenger. 
http://clk.atdmt.com/MSN/go/msnnkwme0080000001msn/direct/01/?href=http://imagine-windowslive.com/minisites/santabot/default.aspx?locale=en-us


