Re: How to migrate my localhost php site to my ISP - Was: willing
 to learn php basicsOn 17/04/10 10:15, Bernard wrote:
>
>
> Thanks for your help Monique. I hadn't thought of that, but it makes
> sense that the ISP only allows one user to log into databases. Problem
> is that outside users will have to connect to my database through a php
> script that will contain my password !

That is normal. If your users can enter data, then the script must have 
at least some write privileges on the database.

In the real world, you deal with the security aspect by placing the 
password (and database and user names) in a second php script outside 
the web server's document root, so that no web request can return it. 
Apache will normally be configured not to allow download of scripts, 
even when a user knows the right filename, but placing the script 
outside the directory tree which apache can reach adds to security. You 
'require' this mini-script in the main php script, which must of course 
be placed within the web document tree. While apache cannot reach 
outside its docroot, php/perl/etc. can, though with the same permissions 
that apache runs under.

In order to achieve this, you need write access to that directory tree 
above apache's docroot, with the ability to set permissions correctly. 
 From what you say, it does not seem that you have that with your 
current ISP. You would seem to need to spend some money, even before you 
are sure you will have the access you need.

 >By the way, just in case I would decide to subscribe to pair.com, 
 >would you know if it is possible to subscribe for a short time, 3 
 >months for instance ? I know of an ISP in Switzerland that is quite a 
 >bit cheaper, but then you have to subscribe for at least two years (80 
 >Euros for the first year, 120 Euros for each following year)

1&1 appears to offer a 60-day guarantee which may meet your needs:

"The 1&1 60-Day Money Back Guarantee applies to the Instant Mail and 
Beginner packages as well as all shared hosting, Virtual Server and 
eShop packages. You will receive a full refund of the fees if you are 
not completely satisfied within 60 days' of the activation of your 
package. Guarantee starts on the date of initial registration of the 
contract number.

"There is no refund for packages ordered with the software bundle, 
software shipping and handling fees, domain name registration fees, or 
any unused bandwidth. 1&1 considers that customers upgrading from an 
existing package have already experienced the 60-Day Money Back 
Guarantee. In addition, each customer can only use the Money Back 
Guarantee once, and for only one contract number per account."

In practice, you'll need to pay a small amount for shipping of 
documentation and to register at least one domain name, so you wouldn't 
get much back out of two months' payment, but you wouldn't be tied into 
a long contract.

I'm on the Business Pro package, at GBP 15 per month, most of which I 
can charge on to customers. There's a Business at GBP 9 per month, about 
the same as your Swiss one, which offers two 100MB MySQL databases plus 
perl and PHP. It doesn't have ssh access to the server, but I've very 
rarely used that. It also doesn't have cron scripts, but I've never used 
them. If you need something timed, you can write it into a script and 
call it as a web page on a timed basis from outside.

As I recall, you don't need ssh access to install phpmyadmin, it's just 
another web script. You FTP the files to a suitable directory. You need 
to give phpmyadmin the local address and port number of the MySQL 
server. Certainly, you are free to create users at various privilege 
levels, you have full control of the databases. You can then logon to 
phpmyadmin using any of the MySQL user credentials, though normally you 
will be doing administration and you will use the root logon.

-- 
Joe


-- 
To UNSUBSCRIBE, email to debian-user-REQUEST@lists.debian.org 
with a subject of "unsubscribe". Trouble? Contact listmaster@lists.debian.org
Archive: http://lists.debian.org/4BC9DB8A.2030309@jretrading.com


