[vox] Anarchist 'Scavenger Hunt' Raises D.C. Police Ire (fwd)

Anarchist 'Scavenger Hunt' Raises D.C. Police Ire
Sat Sep 21, 3:37 PM ET

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - An online "anarchist scavenger
hunt" proposed for next week's annual meeting of the
International Monetary Fund ( news - web sites) and
World Bank ( news - web sites) here has raised the ire
of police, who fear demonstrators could damage
property and wreak havoc.

Break a McDonald's window, get 300 points. Puncture a
Washington D.C. police car tire to win 75 points.
Score 400 points for a pie in the face of a corporate
executive or World Bank delegate.

D.C. Assistant Police Chief Terrance Gainer told a
congressional hearing on Friday that law authorities
were in talks to decide whether planned protests were,
"so deleterious to security efforts that we ought to
take proactive action."

Several thousand people are expected to demonstrate
outside the IMF and World Bank headquarters next
weekend.

The Anti-Capitalist Convergence, a D.C.-based
anarchist group, is also planning a day-long traffic
blockade, banner-drops and protests against major
corporations in the downtown core.

Chuck, the 37 year-old webmaster of the anarchist site
www.infoshop.org who declined to give his last name,
told Reuters his scavenger hunt was meant as a joke.

"People were asking for things to do when they come to
D.C. We made the list to get people thinking, so they
don't do the boring, standard stuff," he said. "I
doubt people will actually keep track of what they do
for points."



