KDE 4.4.3 upgrade eats 141 MB of /homeFolks,

I've looked around the "KDE 4.4.3 in unstable" thread and elsewhere, and I
didn't see this specific issue come up, although I think it's generally
well known.

In any event, I upgraded my unstable machine today, which was a few weeks
behind, and it pulled in KDE 4.4.3.  First thing I noticed was my home
directory was less 141 MB.  Furthermore, if I create a new user account,
and do nothing but login and logout of a KDE desktop, the home directory
takes up 141 MB with no real data!

I'll be frank for a moment.  Regardless of whatever technical issues have
arisen in recent history, it is _simply unacceptable_ that a system upgrade
should suddenly eat 141 of /home, especially without warning!.  It is
similarly unacceptable that a new, empty user account also takes up this
much space.  I know disk space is cheap and plentiful these days, and that
Google is willing to store 7453.767074 MB of my email, but certainly I must
not be alone in the belief that an empty user account taking up 141 MB of
disk space is absurd.

Alright, so here's the backstory:

KDE 4 uses Akonadi as its PIM storage backend.  Akonadi, at least in
unstable, only supports MySQL (and PostgreSQL) as backends.  And the
default configuration of Akonadi is to run a per-user instance of MySQL
with InnoDB tables with two 64 MB transaction logs.  Apparently such has
been the case for a while, and anyone who has been using KDE PIM
applications has probably noticed such.

But I _don't_ use KDE PIM!  I don't even have kdepim installed.

The only reason why I even have akonadi-server and mysql-server-core
installed is because kde-minimal ultimately depends on them, and I'd rather
not micromanage my KDE packages.

In any event, Akonadi is a known problem, and many folks are unhappy about
kdepim 4.4's inclusion in squeeze, etc.  It's not worth going into that
here.

Point is, up until now, folks who didn't use KDE PIM applications never had
to worry about akonadi/mysql/141 MB.  But apparently in KDE 4.4,
kres-migrator automatically migrates the old KResource mechanism to an
Akonadi-backed data store.  Thus burdening every KDE user, including brand
new user accounts, with akonadi/mysql/141 MB less disk space.  I suppose
that's "fine" for anyone who might actually benefit from it--although I
consider it a blatant waste of disk space.  But it's surprising at best,
and downright aggravating at worse, to those of us who are trying to avoid
this entire mess.

In any event, this problem can be avoided by simply running "kwriteconfig
--file kres-migratorrc --group Migration --key Enabled --type bool false"
[1] prior to upgrading to KDE 4.4, or prior to running "startkde" as a new
user account, although the latter results in the KDE 3 => 4 migration
dialog popping up.

There's a couple solutions to this problem.

- Long term: Don't use MySQL as the default Akonadi backend, which is
  currently infeasible.

- Disable "kres-migrator".  Or at least add a debconf option to
  kdepim-runtime presenting the option of running kres-migrator by default
  or disabling it.

- Add a warning dialog during kdepim-runtime upgrade stating that
  kres-migrator will run by default and potentially consume a large amount
  of per-user disk space, unless migration is manually disabled by the
  above command.

- Reduce the default size of the InnoDB transaction logs in the Akonadi
  per-user MySQL configuration.  I'm not familiar enough with InnoDB tuning
  to offer an appropriate value, but I would suggest 4 MB to be the upper
  limit of a reasonable per-user log size, it terms of what I'm comfortable
  spending towards unproductive disk usage.  Presumably if 64 MB is the
  default, it's intended for databases with somewhat significant
  transaction volumes.  I expect that in average usage, Akonadi sees very,
  very few transactions relatively speaking.  If one can get away with a 1
  MB transaction log or less, even better!

I suppose the last option is the best for going forward with KDE PIM 4.4 in
squeeze.  Hopefully someone familiar with InnoDB tuning can comment on what
a reasonable transaction log size is for the expected, typical Akonai
transaction volume, and Debian can configure to use the minimum reasonable
value by default.

Apologies for my rant.  I just can't comprehend how such disk usage is even
remotely acceptable for PIM usage patterns.

Thanks to anyone who addresses the issue, and to the KDE packagers for
their patience in dealing with user complaints.  =)

[1] http://techbase.kde.org/Projects/PIM/Akonadi#How_do_I_disable_automatic_migration_from_KDE.27s_traditional_framework.3F


-- 
To UNSUBSCRIBE, email to debian-kde-REQUEST@lists.debian.org
with a subject of "unsubscribe". Trouble? Contact listmaster@lists.debian.org
Archive: http://lists.debian.org/20100512005320.GA16379@club.cc.cmu.edu


