Re: This little domain went to China....bitbitch@magnesium.net wrote:

>The RIAA continues to amaze me.    Everyone might want to grok the
>news yahoo has:
>
>http://rd.yahoo.com/dailynews/nm/tc_nm/inlinks/*http://Listen4ever.com
>
>
>And if you're really bored, go ahead and read the papers that were
>filed by the RIAA against the major backbone providers.
>
>http://www.riaa.com/pdf/Listen4Ever.pdf
>
>
>
>
>A very disgruntled,
>
>bitbitch
>
>
>http://xent.com/mailman/listinfo/fork
>
Well perhaps this little tidbit of sanity will make you (slightly) more 
gruntled:
http://www.informationwave.net/news/20020819riaa.php
----------------------------------------------------------
*IWT Bans RIAA From Accessing Its Network*

*August 19, 2002*

Information Wave Technologies has announced it will actively deny the 
Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) from accessing the 
contents of its network. Earlier this year, the RIAA announced its new 
plan to access computers without owner's consent for the sake of 
protecting its assets. Information Wave believes this policy puts its 
customers at risk of unintentional damage, corporate espionage, and 
invasion of privacy to say the least.

Due to the nature of this matter and RIAA's previous history, we feel 
the RIAA will abuse software vulnerabilities in a client's browser after 
the browser accesses its site, potentially allowing the RIAA to access 
and/or tamper with your data. Starting at midnight on August 19, 2002, 
Information Wave customers will no longer be able to reach the RIAA's 
web site. Information Wave will also actively seek out attempts by the 
RIAA to thwart this policy and apply additional filters to protect our 
customers' data.

Information Wave will also deploy peer-to-peer clients on the Gnutella 
network from its security research and development network (honeynet) 
which will offer files with popular song titles derived from the 
Billboard Top 100 maintained by VNU eMedia. No copyright violations will 
take place, these files will merely have arbitrary sizes similar to the 
length of a 3 to 4 minute MP3 audio file encoded at 128kbps. Clients 
which connect to our peer-to-peer clients, and then afterwards attempt 
to illegally access the network will be immediately blacklisted from 
Information Wave's network. The data collected will be actively 
maintained and distributed from our network operations site.

The placement of this policy is not intended to hamper the RIAA's piracy 
elimination agenda or advocate Internet piracy, but to ensure the safety 
of our customers' data attached to our network from hackers or corporate 
espionage hidden by the veil of RIAA copyright enforcement.

If you have questions, comments, or concerns regarding this policy, 
please e-mail riaa@informationwave.net <mailto:riaa@informationwave.net>.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Owen




http://xent.com/mailman/listinfo/fork

