QuickTime IIDC trigger problemsI am developing an application that is capturing video from two
cameras that are synced to an external time source running at 60Hz.
The sync is also driving a laser that provides a visual signal that
the camera will "see" in every second frame. So the sequence of frames
looks like:

frame | frame + signal | frame | frame + signal =85

The code I have is based on the WhackedTV example code. I have added
code to set the trigger settings (using VDIIDCTriggerSettings) and
other camera-specific settings using VDIIDCSetCSRData. This gives us
frames with signal that alternates as expected. However the phase of
the frames switches at a regular period, so the frames without signal
suddenly become frames with signal and vice versa.

I suspect that this is related to this call:

SGSetFrameRate(mChan, FloatToFixed(60.0f));

I am guessing that this causes problems because the clock of our
external sync and the clock in the computer are running at slightly
different rates that after several minutes the clocks are out by
enough that the sequence grabber re-uses the previous frame because
there is no new one. Is this a safe assumption?

Is there any way to get the sequence grabber to just grab the frames
that are generated by the camera without specifying the sequence
grabber's framerate? That is, so we only get the frames that are
generated on the camera's sync signal with no double-ups?

Alternatively, if someone could point me in the direction of some
documentation, example code, or any other suggestions  that may
provide some answers, clues or other options then I would appreciate
it greatly.

Cheers
Jed
 _______________________________________________
Do not post admin requests to the list. They will be ignored.
QuickTime-API mailing list      (QuickTime-API@lists.apple.com)
Help/Unsubscribe/Update your Subscription:
http://lists.apple.com/mailman/options/quicktime-api/mlsubscriber.tech%40csmining.org

This email sent to mlsubscriber.tech@csmining.org

