Spot performance slows anywhere on your networkFrom nobody Tue Nov  5 01:33:30 2013
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="ISO-8859-1"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable

Diskeeper Corporation=20

View this message online
<http://www.diskeeper.com/promotions/landing.aspx?rid=3D106247>=20

Find out fast with powerful, free software from Diskeeper Corporation
that gives you a network wide at-a-glance view of fragmentation
accumulation. Discover bottlenecks fast, before they cost you time and
effort tracking them down by other means.=20

New Disk Performance Analyzer for Networks
<http://www.diskeeper.com/downloads/directtrialware.aspx?b=3D=
=

& apid=3DPPS0005673 & rid=3D106289>&reg; utility version 3.0 is the
versatile and intuitive performance tool you&rsquo;ve been looking
for, and it is free.=20

Key Features:=20

- Reveals fragmentation levels on systems throughout your network


- New! Includes free space fragmentation in its performance scoring


- New! Includes total files and total fragmented files in performance
reports


- Schedule reports and have them automatically mailed


- Export performance reports to a portable format


- New! Supports Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2 and earlier O/Ss
and X64 systems



<http://www.diskeeper.com/downloads/directtrialware.aspx?b=3D=
=
&apid=3DPPS0005673
& rid=3D106289>=20

Check out our Small Business bundles with up to $250 savings NOW! See
bundle offers
<http://www.diskeeper.com/purchase/business/bundle.aspx?b=3D=
=

& apid=3DPPS0005673 & rid=3D106289>=20

*NOTICE:* You have received this message at the e-mail address:
=
hibody@csmining.org=
. We periodically send new product information to those
who voluntarily give us their e-mail address. We hope you enjoy
receiving this timely information.

Support Questions <http://www.diskeeper.com/support> | Unsubscribe
<http://www.diskeeper.com/unsubscribe> | Privacy Policy
<http://www.diskeeper.com/privacy>

&copy; 2010 Diskeeper Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Diskeeper
Corporate logo, and Disk Performance Analyzer for Networks are
trademarks or registered trademarks owned by Diskeeper Corporation.
All other trademarks and brand names are the property of their
respective owners. Diskeeper Corporation, 7590 N. Glenoaks Blvd.,
Burbank, CA 91504=20
